[Music]
hello and welcome history buffs my name
is Nick Hodges and we're back again with
another mobster classic this time we'll
be taking a look at casino following the
groundbreaking success of Goodfellas
Martin Scorsese returned to the gangster
genre that we all know and love and as
before it is also based on real events
that took place during the 1970s and 80s
it was a time when the Mafia ruled the
city of Las Vegas no other criminal
organization and American history had
ever risen to such power but not even
this was enough for them to survive the
changing times greed and recklessness
would play key roles in their downfall
especially by the actions of the
real-life mobster played by Joe Pesci
and oh speaking of which just because
Joe Pesci's in this movie don't expect
me to be making too many jokes in this
video like I did with his music career
my Goodfellas review there's just so
much history to cover here that I feel
needs to be prioritized and it's not
because I'm worried my jokes have
offended anyone well
maybe Joe Pesci but I doubt he'll accept
my apology anytime soon look I know I'm
the last person you want to speak to you
right now bye I sincerely am sorry for
what I said about your music it was
pretty childish for me to say the least
so are we how we cool
yes anyway it is in this epic drama the
director Martin Scorsese explores the
reign of a criminal empire and what led
to its demise but how much of the story
is true what separates between fact and
Hollywood fiction well my fellow history
buffs let's find out this is Casino
[Music]
if you look into the history of Las
Vegas you'll find it colorful to say the
least you could almost say that was a
city built from crime even during the
days of the Wild West was known as one
of the most dangerous settlements in
America isolated in the middle of the
desert and as lack of law enforcement
made it a breeding ground for criminals
it had all sorts from cattle rustlers to
thieves to bandits
all of them look to Las Vegas to seek
their fortune the same would be true
decades later during the 1950's since
gambling was legal in Las Vegas the map
has spent millions of dollars building
lavish hotels at casinos they threw
these amazing musical shows that were
headlined by such icons like Frank
Sinatra Dean Martin and Elvis Presley
and that in turn attracted the Hollywood
elite to come down as well which brought
in a sense of even more glamour and
excitement to the city
they even had these crazy wild parties
where guests could watch atomic bombs
being tested in the desert 50 miles away
right from the comfort of their hotels
this all helped transform Las Vegas into
a thriving tourist industry bringing in
8 million visitors a year and 200
million dollars in legal casino profits
but as impressive that this all was the
Mafia never intended to go completely
legitimate they wanted to use the
casinos to launder their illegal money
and later came up with a rackets called
the skim the way it worked was that they
would pockets untaxed casino money by
falsifying records through rigged slot
machines and weighing scales they were
even able to infiltrate the completely
out of bounds count rooms and take money
right out of the cash boxes now notice
how an account where nobody ever seems
to see anything somehow somebody's
always looking the other way now look at
these guys they look busy right they're
counting money who wants to bother
business as usual
oh hello the bike and that's all there
is to it
just another fat fuck walking out of the
casino with a suitcase
the Mafia found it so easy stealing
money this way
that they were able to do it every month
which they then distributed amongst the
families for whatever their invested
ownership was of the casinos who was one
of the easiest and most lucrative
rackets they ever made now since that
pretty much covers how the Mafia came to
Las Vegas let's go ahead and look into
the film itself the first thing I'd like
to do is point out that casino is an
entirely different animal - Goodfellas
although they are both historical movies
Goodfellas is technically the most
accurate of the two and that's down to a
creative decision made by Martin
Scorsese and screenwriter Nicholas
Pileggi while Goodfellas openly states
that is based on a true story Casino is
only adapted from a true story
so shouldn't be held to the same
standard of accuracy it should really be
regarded as historical fiction since
none of its characters are named after
the real people and some of the events
have been either changed or altered
entirely that being said the movie is
still pretty accurate once you figure
out who is who and what is what then
everything becomes clear for example
let's take a look at casinos leading
protagonists ace Rothstein a mob
associate who manages their biggest
casino the Tangiers his reputation as a
highly skilled gambler makes him the
perfect man for the job
now this character is based on a real
person except it wasn't a suave scene
but Frank lefty Rosenthal and he didn't
manage one casino but for the Hacienda
the Fremont the marina and the crown
jewel the Stardust the main inspiration
behind the Tangiers and just like his
film counterparts lefty Rosenthal
dedicated his life to gambling
particularly in sports betting born in
1929 lefty spent his teenage years
reading dozens of copies of newspapers
sports magazines and racing forms he
followed the progress of jockeys
athletes sports teams and catalog past
performances and playing patents whether
it be in horse racing boxing or football
lefty would find the inside scoop
crunches numbers
until he could accurately predict the
odds when we were first hanging out
together he'd know if the quarterback
was on coke get the wind velocity so he
could judge the field goals even figured
out the different bounce you got off the
different kinds of wood they use my
college basketball court you know
[Music]
although lefty religiously followed the
world of sports he was never a true fan
of it it was just a way to make money
now in the movie they never outright say
where the character ace Rothstein is
from or anyone else for that matter all
they ever say is back home back home I'm
not exactly sure why they do this but
almost everybody came from Chicago
including Lefty and it was in Chicago
during the 1950's where he would meet
his future employers starting out as a
Clark and then later as a bookie he and
his colleagues were allowed to operate
by paying protection to crooked cops
these cops in turn would kick a
percentage of the tribute to the Chicago
mafia also known as the outfit when they
spotted left his talent they offered him
a bigger role and their profit
skyrocketed earning lefty a great deal
of respect and eventually was put in
charge of the entire legal bookmaking
rackets this decision while lucrative
for the mob wouldn't go unnoticed for
very long throughout the 1960s lefty
would have freaking run-ins with the law
over charges of bribery and match-fixing
although never formally convicted the
authorities did make things easy for him
such as getting him bans from the horse
and dog tracks in Florida this kind of
heat definitely hindered his ability to
earn but fortunately for Lefty a golden
opportunity came as way the Alpha
decided that the best solution for Lefty
was a fresh start in Las Vegas and
offered him the job of running their
casinos Gaming Commission would never
doesn't gambling and bookmaking bitches
I have a license to work in a casino all
you gotta do is apply for one the state
law says that you can work in a casino
while they're processing your
application they got a ten-year backlog
but what happens when they do fine
they'll never find out all you gotta do
is keep changing your job title like
fuck a senior executive to food and
beverage and so in 1968 Frank Rosenthal
came out to Las Vegas but UTA's criminal
record he couldn't be officially
recognized on paper as the casinos owner
that job title had to go to a
squeaky-clean frontman in the movie his
name is Philip Green but the real guy
was Alan Glick a real estate mogul like
his character however he was for San
Diego and not Arizona but a big thing
left out in casino was his rivalry with
lefty Alan Glick naively believed that
since he was the official owner
Rosenthal had to answer to him he was
only a casino manager after all but
Glick quickly realized that wasn't to be
the case any decisions about running the
casino was made by lefty whilst Glick
was either kept out of the loop or
ignored entirely not even the staff
recognized clicks Authority it was clear
to everyone that Frank Rosenthal was the
real man in charge from his very first
day lefty micromanaged every little
thing that went on in his casinos like
disciplining the dealers with how they
placed their chips criticizing the
showgirls over their weights and yes
even obsessing about the quantity of
blueberries sold in his muffins how many
blueberries your muffin has and how many
mine has you're just falling apart I'd
not are you talking about it's like
everything else is
you know this never gets done this might
seem a bit eccentric but it's absolutely
true lefty made sure that every
blueberry muffin had at least ten
blueberries in them as you could see
Rosenthal was extremely strict and was
probably seen as a bit of a dick by a
staff but he can't deny that he was damn
good at his job he even had the
foresight to introduce a sports betting
parlor inside a casino something that no
other casino thought of doing before he
came along but as much as lefty prided
himself by doing things by the book he
wasn't above using violence another
scene in the movie that turn out to be
true is when the security catch a card
cheat and bring him into a storage room
and just like what we see ace Rothstein
do here Rosenthal let that shooter go
with a warning by breaking his hand with
a hammer under lefty strict oversight
casino profits more than doubled earning
the outfit millions of dollars to
protect their investment and the
profitable skimming scam the bosses
decided in 1971 to send one of their top
it forces to Las Vegas and make sure
everything ran smoothly in the film this
enforcer is Nicky Santoro but his real
name was Tony Spilotro now an
interesting thing I'd like to mention
was the brilliant decision to cast your
Pesci for this role you might think it
was a no-brainer given this incredible
performance in Goodfellas but it should
be noted that Joe Pesci didn't look
anything like the real Tommy DeSimone
who was six for two whilst he was only
five foot four but what's cool in casino
is the cast who worked out to be much
more authentic since Tony Spilotro was
short as well the five foot two mobster
was nicknamed the ant and like a scene
as Nicky Santoro Tony Spilotro also had
a bit of a Napoleon complex and
compensated for it by using excessive
violence known as one of the most feared
gangsters in Chicago
Tony had dreams of becoming boss of his
own family someday an opportunity to
prove himself came on the 15th of May
1962 when two mob-connected men were
found dead in the car it was the Scavo
brothers and the murders raised quite a
stir in Chicago as they had been on sank
the rules of the Mafia was that she
could not kill anyone under their
protection but that first been given the
okay
otherwise you would be killed and the
guys responsible were Billy McCarthy and
Jimmy miraculous Tony Spilotro was given
the task of finding them and killing
them and the way he went about it
inspired the most graphic scene and
Casino you know the one that really
sticks in your head it's that bit in the
movie where an Irish crew shoots up a
bar and kills two mobsters and a
waitress which isn't true what happened
to Billy McCarthy when Tony found him is
two days into fucking nights we beat the
shit out of this guy I mean we even
stuck ice picks in his boss you better
hope he gives me a fucking name soon I'm
gonna give him yours Frank yes why do
you never talk in a last-ditch effort to
make Billy talk Tony stuck his head in a
vise and it was only when it cranked it
up popped out his eyeball did Billy
finally give up his accomplice Jimmy by
killing Billy and Jimmy Tony Spilotro is
promoted into a made man he continued
rising through the ranks in Chicago
until 1971 when he was rewarded a job in
Las Vegas the reason why was that the
Alfred had learned that some of their
counters were stealing money from the
skim the bosses were naturally furious
about this and felt the splotches
presence alone would be enough to deter
any more would-be thieves
he was also expected to protect Frank
Rosenthal an old friend of his from back
in the day for the same reasons that I
am and it'd make a lot of money for us
once piltre was in las vegas that's
exactly what he did he got everyone in
line stopped the leaks and protected
lefty this is pretty much all he was
expected to do but Tony soon grew
Restless with his assignment and wanted
to take things to the next level now
although the Mafia had a stake in
running the casinos none of them were
involved in any street-level crime this
is because they wanted to make Las Vegas
safe for tourists which made it
untouched by organized crime Tony
Spilotro got started by running a loan
sharking racket extorting bookies and
dealers alike
he also intimidated the local criminals
into paying him a street tax with
Spilotro muscling in the city
experienced a huge crime wave now you
might be wondering why this didn't alarm
the Mafia well it's simply due to greed
spell atre was a good owner and as long
as he kept them happy with money they
were willing to look the other way and
that's how lefty and spilatro the two
biggest players in Las Vegas made their
fortune for the next few years but it
couldn't last forever
[Music]
it was 1975 when things first started
going wrong for the mob in Vegas it
turned out that the squeaky-clean
frontman Allen Glick had a few secrets
of his own a silent partner by the name
of tomorrow rant had loaned clique half
a million dollars a few years before and
believed she was entitled to a 5% share
the casinos when Glick refused to
negotiate tomorrow rant filed a lawsuit
against him one that would require
opening Allen glicks books in court by
pursuing legal action Tamara had
unknowingly sealed her fate this was
because opening the books threatened to
expose the outfit leaving the with
little choice but a sanction a hit and
it happened almost exactly like we see
in casino on November 9th 1975 a gunman
broke into Tamara's home grabbed her by
the jaw and shot her five times in the
head the only difference is as unlikely
that spilatro pulled the trigger himself
in any case tomorrow rands murder made
headline news and cost a lot of
suspicion on Allen Glick harassed by
hordes of journalists he denies having
anything to do with her death or being
affiliated with organized crime it
didn't help though the suspicion alone
was enough to convince authorities to
take a closer look with a little digging
they found out how Rosenthal had been
secretly running the casinos without a
gaming license and if he wanted to
continue
he'd have to apply for one before the
Nevada Gaming Control Board which was an
awkward position for lefty due to his
criminal record nevertheless Rosenthal
prepared his case as best he could and
hoped his contributions to Las Vegas
would see him through the hearing took
place in January 1976 and left he felt
fairly optimistic about his chances but
before he was even given a chance to
speak the board voted unanimously to
reject his license barring him from
working in any casino Rosenthal was
completely outraged and vowed to fight
the Gaming Control Board in court it
wasn't until the following year in early
1977 to Rosenthal win his case with the
Nevada Supreme Court overruling the
Gaming Control board's decision and
lifting the casino ban he could once
again work in a casino but not in
anything tied to gaming now although
this was a big win for left
he continues making a public spectacle
in court in his fight for a gaming
license something that the Mafia were
adamantly against so they told Alan
Glick to rehire Rosenthal as the food
and beverage chairman so he could
secretly go back to running the casinos
but because left he wanted the clears
public image
he later chose another job in April 1977
he became the Stardust Entertainment
director and hosted a late-night talk
show called the Frank Rosenthal show
where he interviewed celebrities like
Frank Sinatra Don Rickles and even OJ
Simpson he also showed musical acts and
held discussions about the disco scene
it wasn't very good to be honest but
that didn't matter to Lefty he really
just wanted to use his show as a
platform to attack the Nevada Gaming
Commission let's not take County
Commissioner Pat Webb too seriously
I recently challenged him to a debate on
this program and he declined what are
you worried about Pat you don't have to
send me any questions you can ask me
anything you want by parading himself on
TV lefty was seriously testing the
outfits patience instead of laying low
he was bringing in all sorts of unwanted
attention a problem that the bosses were
already trying to deal with elsewhere
while Rosenthal was fighting his legal
battles in 1976 Tony Spilotro had been
busy making moves of his own he opened a
jewelry shop called the gold rush and
used it as a base for a burglary crew he
had recruited from Chicago from wealthy
homes hotel rooms to jewelry stores they
hit every target they possibly could the
crew had figured out that many alarms
were only tripped when a door was
breached so what they did instead was to
break you through the walls and ceilings
this simple tactic earned them the
nickname the hole in the wall gang and
the media covered their every exploits
Las Vegas had been relatively peaceful
before splutter came along but had never
seen anything quite like this the public
quickly grew angry with how little was
being done to stop these break-ins and
this was due to investigations being
hindered by corrupt cops and politicians
who believe that the mobs casinos were
too important to risk for Las Vegas
economy especially over just a few
burglaries seeing the corruption
what it was it was down to the FBI to
solve this mess by 1977 they placed Tony
Spilotro and all his associates under
constant surveillance which wasn't easy
since piltre knew he was being watched
thanks to a tip-off from the Metro
Police picker bull you'll watch you and
just like we see in casino Tony took
precautions like buying anti
surveillance equipment switching cars to
throw off tails speaking in code of his
taps phones and covering his mouth so
his lips can be read the only thing you
didn't do which we see in the movie was
personally take part in these burglaries
eventually splutter became so good
eluding the FBI that they were willing
to commit enormous resources on him I
mean for example let's take a look at
the scene when Niki santora's playing
golf now you think that this bit might
be too ridiculous to be true but
surprisingly no on October 12th 1981 the
FBI were flying a surveillance plane
over the Las Vegas Country Club when it
was abruptly forced to make an emergency
landing much to the amusement of
everyone watching the feds were watching
Niki played golf for so long they ran
out of gas okay that part isn't exactly
true the plane didn't run out of fuel it
just had mechanical problems but it
doesn't really matter this was still a
huge embarrassment to the FBI
especially when they made the news I was
playing tennis and I saw a plane just
come down didn't hear any sounds cuz the
engine must have been dead but despite
his best efforts Spilotro couldn't throw
off the feds forever by that point they
already had a good idea of what the mob
was doing in Vegas this was thanks to
the Kansas City wiretap back in November
1978 which recorded some mobsters
talking about the skin and what they
discussed it's pretty close to what we
see in casino the only big difference
was that this happened in a pizzeria and
not a grocery store by early 1979
spolanos ego was out of control
thinking he was untouchable he began to
grow reckless to the points whisper
lotterer even stopped following mafia
conduct a decision that ultimately led
to his affair with Lefty's wife Jerry
now sleeping with another man's wife in
the Mafia is punishable by death
something that's piltre didn't
appreciate until much later
I fucked up Frankie I fucked up Lou at
this time I never started with this
fucking broad and what's more is if you
saw anyone else having an affair then
you had to tell the boss a situation
that's blotters best friend Frank
Cullotta found himself in when rumors of
the affair reach Chicago there's one
thing about these old-timers they don't
like any fucking around with the other
guys wives it's bad for business so I
lied even though I knew that by lying
the gahjii I could wind up getting
killed too
no I ain't seen anything like that this
didn't really convince the bosses as
they heard rumors of Spilotro flaunting
his affair with Jerry out in public but
without any confirmation then all they
had was their suspicions that same yes
piltre found out that an associate of
is called Jerry Lisner had been arrested
and wanted to cut a deal with the FBI so
on October 10th 1979 Spilotro sent Frank
Cullotta to kill him but what Frank
didn't realize until after the murder
was that Tony Spilotro had lied about
getting the OK from Chicago which is
another grave offense of the Mafia also
punishable by death
but spilatro didn't seem too concerned
he probably felt that as long as he
continued to be a good earner the outfit
would always look the other way but just
a few months later in December 1979 Tony
Spilotro is blacklisted by the Nevada
Gaming Commission and was banned from
every casino in the state and the
casinos can be fined as much as a
hundred thousand every time he shows up
in this shit yes I certainly can the
only thing I can't believe is how many
people you said are in the black book my
work is a bunch of bullshit
they get to named an airport country
throughout I honestly don't know why
this is in the movie because it doesn't
make any sense
Al Capone could have been in the black
book because he died in 1947 and the
book didn't exist until 1960 and it
didn't just have two people in it by
1979 for something closer to 14 anyway
by not being allowed in the casino men
that Spilotro couldn't oversee the skim
the very job he was assigned to do so
you could probably guess just how fed up
the Chicago Outfit was with them but
worse was still yet to come by early
1981 the FBI made a major breakthrough
their case by flipping a member from the
hole-in-the-wall gang
the alarms expert Sal Romano who spent
several months secretly recording their
meetings the crew were getting ready for
their biggest score yet to rob a jewelry
store called Bertha's gifts and home
furnishings with a potential 1 million
dollar payout the plan was to break into
the store roof on the 4th of July 1981
so the Independence Day fireworks could
muffle their drilling under the cover of
darkness the crew crept onto the roof
and began their work only to be
surrounded moments later by dozens of
cops and FBI agents almost the entire
crew was arrested and charged with
multiple counts of burglary including
spolanos right-hand man and best friend
Frank Cullotta
whose characters renamed Frank Marino
and Casino now we don't see any of this
in the movie but this was a crucial
moment to tony spilotro's downfall while
Frank Cullotta was in jail
the FBI repeatedly offered to reduce his
sentence if he became a government
witness but since Frank was loyal he
refused to rat that was until a few
months later when a federal agent played
for him one of their wiretaps and on the
tape was a recorded phone call between
Tony Spilotro and the Chicago Outfit
receiving the green light to kill Frank
this was devastating to Frank as he had
kept his honor but faced with certain
death Frank decided to accept the deal
and was placed into witness protection
in early 1982 things escalated even
further that year on October 4th lefty
Rosenthal was leaving a restaurant and
got into his car but when he turned the
key in the ignition the car suddenly
burst into flames the bomb had been made
for him but it failed to go off properly
leaving a badly burns lefty to escape
with his life it still isn't known who
was responsible but there may have been
Tony Spilotro trying to cover up his
affair with Jerry it could also have
been a sanction hit by the Mafia for all
of lefties legal problems in any case
the failed car bombing had sent a clear
message and convinced lefty to leave Las
Vegas for good in 1983 the knocked over
24th 1983 spinatra was indicted and
stood trial in Chicago for the murders
of billy mccarthy and timmy miraculous
back in 1962 however he was acquitted
because the judge Thomas J Maloney
decided that Frank Cullotta testimony
wasn't quite good enough now if you're
thinking that's a bit shady and he
should probably know that same judge was
later convicted for bribery in 1992
anyway all those piltre got away this
time he wasn't done yet within a month
he was hit by three different
indictments based on further evidence by
Frank Cullotta they ranged from armed
robbery the murder of Jerry Lisner
and his involvement with the skin the
FBI had also collected enough evidence
to indict 15 mob bosses from Chicago
Milwaukee Cleveland and Kansas City to
top it all off the Nevada Gaming
Commission then shut down all of their
casinos costing the outfit a fortune in
lost revenue the next few years were
spent with everyone going in and out of
court and by 1986 five of the bosses
were sent to prison that was the last
straw as fast Tony Spilotro was
concerned and a decision was made to
kill him now the way it happens in the
movie is kind of close to the truth but
not exactly we see Niki and his brother
Dominic meets up with a bunch of
mobsters in a cornfield when they
suddenly start getting beaten with
baseball bats and his Nicki Centaurus
best friend Frank Marino who lands the
first blow now as I mentioned before
Frank marinas character is heavily based
on Frank Cullotta who obviously couldn't
have killed Tony and his real brother
Michael since he was in witness
protection the two brothers were also
not killed with baseball bats or buried
alive in my opinion it was much more
brutal than that I actually think that
the reason the used baseball bats is
because it's kind of a tongue-in-cheek
reference to Goodfellas I'm sure you can
all remember that the act of Frank
Vincent
also play Billy batts and since he gets
killed by Joe Pesci in that movie they
figured that Frank Vincent should kill
him in this movie with a baseball bat no
less anyway so what really happened was
on the 14th of June 1986 Tony was
invited to Chicago to see his brother
Michael become a made man the ceremony
was to take place in the basement of an
isolated house but once Tony and Michael
were downstairs they realized that
everyone else in the room was wearing
gloves the two brothers were then
violently punched and kicked to death
from all directions this execution was
as personal as it could get everyone
wanted a piece of Tony for all the
damage he caused by the time they were
finished the two brothers were
unrecognizable from their wounds the
bodies were then driven out to a
cornfield and buried in an unmarked
grave before being discovered by a
farmer just over a week later on the
23rd of June 1986
so the last thing I want to talk about
in this review is the betrayal Frank
lefty Rosenthal
for the most part casino does a pretty
good job of representing the real man
through his clothing his mannerisms his
obsession to detail and acknowledging
that the man was an egotistical prick
but because he's the main protagonist
the movie does take a few liberties in
making him more sympathetic not a lot
but just enough for the audience to get
the wrong impression of him
the most obvious way they do this is
through his on-screen relationship with
his wife Jerry who has renamed ginger in
the movie now I think we can all agree
that this is a marriage made in hell and
his biggest reason seems to be ginger
she's a character hated by many for
being a manipulative volatile woman who
only marries ace for his money and
obsessing of a materialistic wealth are
hardly romantic qualities that people
look up to in a relationship
[Music]
we may have been banned from Twitter but
the movies keep on Rome and this month
we're better Aces High as we become
moving matchmaker casino we dip reloj
Bennifer in this romantic comedy ginger
Gamble's for love a sweet-talking
go-getter who knows what she wants and
how to get it somebody get me some
ginger coz this girl's given me
butterflies Sam a man who's not afraid
to wear pink and respects women as long
as there's a mutual respect that kind of
thing Nikki the party animal who still
finds time to be a family man and Lester
Sam may have put a ring on it but
diamonds are a girl's best friend the
season of giving continues and so can
you by voting in your favorites endless
smashing that like button
anyway I'm not trying to say that the
real woman was something of a saint just
that some of the details in a story have
been tweaked to make her on-screen
character look much worse in the movie
the real Jerry was Geraldine McGee from
Los Angeles California she originally
started out as an aspiring dancer and
swimsuit model her agent and also her
lover was a man called Lenny mom or and
he's the basis for the character lester
diamond but sound like in the movie
lenny mom or wasn't a pimp and jerry
wasn't his former prostitute nor was he
any of the other things claims by ace
Rothstein but one thing that just could
never understand was that she could have
everything under control except for her
old pimp boyfriend Lester diamond he was
a moocher a card sheik a country club
golf hustler scumbag chasing dentists
for a few bucks by making lester a pimp
movie not only turns the audience
against him but also changes his
relationship with ginger we see ginger
as a victim of Lester not his romantic
partner but in real life Jerry and Leni
were highschool sweethearts and they
even had a daughter together a fact
completely left town casino in 1960
Lenny convinced Jerry to move to Las
Vegas to find work while si stayed
behind in Los Angeles she spent the next
several years working as a cocktail
waitress a showgirl and as a socialite
before finally meeting lefty Rosenthal
in 1968 lefty completely fell in love
with Jerry and he started a relationship
together but when he proposed just a
year later Jerry had to explain that she
didn't share the same feelings as he did
so what left he did instead was pidge's
proposal like a job opportunity
promising financial security for Jerry
and her daughter and an assurance that
she could keep her independence
whether she loved him or not under those
conditions jerry agreed and they got
married in 1969 by 1973 the couple had a
son together but already their marriage
had begun falling apart left he expected
jerry to commit to being a mother and a
housewife but jerry resented Lefty's
efforts to control her so she go out
every night drinking and passing on the
strip eventually it got so bad the lefty
threatened a divorce and had take
custody of their son and
she cut back on her drinking and agreed
to have a second child Jerry
reluctantly accepted as she gave birth
to a baby girl not that it solved
anything
now while we do see casino just how
toxic their married life was it does
make ginger look like she was most at
fault through our drug and alcohol
addiction and the time she's tied up her
daughter to the bed what we don't see is
ace Rothstein cheat on her or viciously
beat her like the real left he did
throwing ginger out of the house or
threatening to kill her for tying up his
daughter is about as physical as ace
ever gets you ever fucking touch her
again you ever do anything like that
again I'll fuckin kill you pure and
simple
all lace really does is force ginger to
carry a beeper so you can know where she
is at all times but he get the
impression that ace reluctantly feels
that he has to do to her
self-destructive behavior whereas the
real Lefty
had always been controlling he
micromanaged their marriage like he was
one of his casinos he taped a daily
schedule to the fridge and made a
check-in with him every day and when he
take this into consideration you can
begin to kind of understand why Jerry
acted the way she did like the time she
tried to run off with her kids with Al
anymore more or even her affair with
Tony Spilotro she was basically looking
for a way out so like I said before
casino does take a few liberties but
there are enough to make lefty Rosenthal
look pretty good by the end of it but
there's one thing I found out about this
guy that not even the filmmakers were
aware of there's a very strong case that
Frank lefty Rosenthal was a rat I know
this might be hard to believe it isn't
mentioned in the film or in many books
or documentaries and the reason why is
because this didn't become public
knowledge until after Lefty's death on
October 30th 2008 when a journalist
called Jane and Morrison published an
article that very day she stated that
left he was given the codename Achilles
was described as a top echelon informant
to the FBI and provided first-hand
knowledge of the Chicago Outfit and
their casino scheme operation now
there's a couple of reasons why I think
this might be true one is that Jane and
Morrison has been following this story
since the very beginning if you look at
this pic
for example you could see a interview in
Tony Spilotro in 1933 and I was also
intrigued when I found the Declassified
FBI files they're released only as
recently as 2017 and they do mention an
informant called Achilles confirming or
Jana and Morrison wrote an article back
in 2008 there's also this great panel
you should check out by the mob museum
discussing the real history behind
casino and they not only reveal that
lefty was an informant but also that his
wife Jerry was an FBI source I was told
by Al they he had him lefty as an
informant and that Jerry Rosenthal was a
source they didn't know the other one
was talking to the same agent now with
lefty Rosenthal I can go so far as
saying that I know I knew there was
something something odd with him because
I know on numerous occasions morning
morning - and probably up to maybe the
fire there's no I I was always test it
was given the subpoena by my supervisor
go serve it on lefty Rosenthal but I did
service subpoena on a minute but I know
the subpoenas never did anything not
just to be clear this is not a hundred
percent confirmed but the information I
was able to find was enough to convince
me that this is true because when you
stop to think about it it does make
sense
lefty never made a bet in his life that
first calculating the odds and seeing
them stacked so high up against him
years before anyone else did he somehow
figured out a way to avoid prison
without having to testify in open court
and still keep all his money the only
thing he didn't do was go back to
working for the Mafia as we are told in
casino
[Music]
well that about wraps it up my name is
Nick Hodges and thanks for watching
history buffs and remember if you like
the show help the channel grow if you
wish to support history buffs that he
can outdo so add patreon and as always
let me know in the comment section what
you thought about casino and of course
what historical movie show I review next
in the meantime check out the history
buffs Twitter and Facebook page for new
updates until then I'll see you next
time
[Music]